README.md, before:

# Portfolio
**Live Site:** [Visit My Portfolio](https://ali-design.neocities.org/)

---
## 📖 Project Rationale
This portfolio website is designed as a real-world application to showcase expertise in web design and front-end development. 
* **Purpose:** To provide potential clients and employers an intuitive, accessible interface to explore my professional background and project capabilities.
* **Justification:** A single-page scrolling architecture was chosen to ensure a "Flow of Information" that minimizes user clicks and keeps the experience unambiguous.
* **Target Audience:** Potential clients, tech recruiters, and web development collaborators.

## 👥 User Stories
The application is built to provide a solution to the following user demands:
* **As a new visitor:** I want the site's purpose to be immediately evident so I don't need supporting documentation.
* **As an employer:** I want to see clear examples of past work and services to evaluate technical skills.
* **As a mobile user:** I want a responsive layout that maintains structural integrity across all device sizes.
* **As an accessibility-dependent user:** I want high-contrast text and descriptive alt-tags for all images.

## 🎨 UX & Design Documentation
### Design Principles 
* **Information Hierarchy:** Headers (H1-H6) are used strictly to convey structure, making each section easy to find based on priority.
* **Accessibility:** Meets guidelines for contrast between background and foreground colors to cater to the visually impaired.
* **User Control:** The site avoids aggressive pop-ups and autoplay of media; users initiate all actions.
* **Consistency:** Graphics and interactivity are consistent across all sections to maintain a professional-grade UI.


## 🛠️ Tech Stack & Development
* **Frontend:** HTML5 (Semantic Markup), CSS3 (Custom Styles), Bootstrap 5 (Responsive Grid).
* **Validation:** * HTML passed through the official **W3C Validator**.
    * CSS passed through the official **Jigsaw Validator**.
* **Maintainability:** Code is organized into well-defined, commented sections with external CSS files linked in the HEAD element.

## 🧪 Testing & Bug Evaluation
Manual testing procedures were implemented to assess functionality and responsiveness.

| Feature | Action | Result |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Responsiveness** | Checked on Mobile, Tablet, and Desktop resolutions | **Pass** |
| **Link Integrity** | Verified all internal and external links (open in new tab) | **Pass** |
| **Form Validation** | Ensured contact form handles user inputs correctly | **Pass** |

### Bug Fixes & Evaluation
* **Fixed:** Resolved a navbar overlap issue on small screens using CSS Media Queries.
* **Fixed:** Corrected image pixelation by using higher-resolution assets.
* **Status:** No obvious errors remain; the code is considered robust and publishable.

## 🚀 Deployment 
The project is deployed to a cloud-based hosting platform and tested to ensure it matches the development version.
* **Version Control:** Git & GitHub were used throughout with descriptive commit messages for each feature.

### Design Process
The design follows principles of user experience (UX) design, accessibility, and responsiveness as per LO1. Wireframes were sketched in Photoshop to plan the structure, starting with a main navigation menu and single-scrolling page divided into sections (Intro, About, Services, Portfolio, Contact). Information hierarchy was prioritized: headers convey structure (e.g., H1 for section titles), content is categorized by priority (e.g., intro at top, contact at bottom), and navigation is intuitive via anchor links.

- **Information Hierarchy**: Sections are organized logically—introductory content first, followed by about, services, projects, and contact. Headers use semantic markup to denote importance, ensuring information is easy to find and presented in an organized fashion.
- **Typography**: Primary font is Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif for body text (readable and modern). Headings use bold variations (font-weight: 700) for emphasis and hierarchy.
- **Color Palette**: A simple, high-contrast scheme for accessibility—Background: #FFFFFF (White), Text: #000000 (Black), Accents/Links: #007BFF (Blue), Dividers: #6C757D (Gray), Highlights: #198754 (Green). This ensures no distractions from backgrounds and meets guidelines (e.g., contrast ratios compliant with WCAG).

### Accessibility
The site meets accessibility guidelines (1.2): High contrast between foreground and background colors, alt text for all non-text elements (e.g., images in portfolio), and user control over actions (no auto-popups or autoplay). Graphics are consistent in style and color (1.5), and the design avoids distracting backgrounds (1.4). Flow of information and interaction feedback are clear and unambiguous (M(i)).

## 🖼️ Wireframes & Mockups
The design phase involved creating wireframes to plan the information hierarchy and user flow. These sketches ensured that headers were placed strategically and navigation remained intuitive across all screen sizes.

![Project Wireframe](assets/images/wireframe.png)
*Figure 1: Initial wireframe design for the Awesome-Design portfolio.*



## About the Project

Hey there! Welcome to my online portfolio. My name is Mohammed Ali, a Web Designer based in East London who recently finished a year-long course on Web Standards.

I like to push the boundaries. I love creating unique, clean, usable design for the web and other digital sources. I build clean, appealing, and functional interfaces which comply with the latest web standards.

I design with Photoshop, Illustrator, and Dreamweaver. I use code sites with XHTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, and PHP. Also, I can make dynamic websites with WordPress if required.

This project was developed as part of the "User Centric Front End Development" unit (Level 5, Unit Number: Y/650/3525), aiming to build a responsive front-end web application while adhering to principles of UX design, accessibility, and maintainability.

## Tech Stack

Built using modern web technologies for a responsive and engaging user experience.

| Tool / Tech | 
| --- |
| [![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML) |
| [![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) |
| [![Bootstrap 5](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap_5-7952B3?style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white)](https://getbootstrap.com/) |
| [![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) |
| [![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/PHP-777BB4?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)](https://www.php.net/) |

**Design Tools:**
[![Photoshop](https://img.shields.io/badge/Adobe%20Photoshop-31A8FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobephotoshop&logoColor=white)](https://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop.html)
[![Illustrator](https://img.shields.io/badge/Adobe%20Illustrator-FF9A00?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobeillustrator&logoColor=white)](https://www.adobe.com/products/illustrator.html)
[![Dreamweaver](https://img.shields.io/badge/Adobe%20Dreamweaver-FF00FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobedreamweaver&logoColor=white)](https://www.adobe.com/products/dreamweaver.html)

## Features

- **Responsive Design**: Utilizes Bootstrap and media queries to adapt seamlessly to desktops, tablets, and mobile devices.
- **Portfolio Gallery**: Displays recent projects with images and descriptions, using semantic HTML for structure.
- **Contact Form**: Allows visitors to submit inquiries, with validation for user input.
- **Anchor Navigation**: Smooth scrolling to sections like About, Services, and Portfolio for intuitive user flow.
- **Clean Interfaces**: Emphasizes usability with consistent styles, accessibility features (e.g., alt text, contrast ratios), and no distracting elements.

## Design System

### Typography

- Primary Font: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif (body text for readability).
- Headings: Bold variations (e.g., font-weight: 700) for emphasis and hierarchy.

### Colors

A simple palette for contrast and accessibility:
- Background: #FFFFFF (White)
- Text: #000000 (Black)
- Accents/Links: #007BFF (Blue)
- Dividers: #6C757D (Gray)
- Highlights: #198754 (Green)

This ensures WCAG compliance, with no distractions from backgrounds and consistent graphics.

Functional Testing
| Feature | Expected Outcome | Result |
|---|---|---|
| Navigation Links | All menu items lead to the correct section or page. | Pass |
| External Links | All external links open in a new browser tab (target="_blank"). | Pass |
| User Control | Audio/Video or pop-ups are user-initiated and not automatic. | Pass |
| Broken Links | No internal links are broken within the application. | Pass |

UI/UX & Accessibility Testing
| Test Case | Description | Result |
|---|---|---|
| Information Hierarchy | Headers (h1-h6) are used correctly to convey content structure. | Pass |
| Color Contrast | Background and foreground colors have sufficient contrast for readability. | Pass |
| Image Resolution | Images are high quality and do not appear pixelated or stretched. | Pass |
| Non-text Elements | All images have descriptive alt text for screen readers. | Pass |

Responsiveness & Compatibility
| Device/Browser | Testing Action | Result |
|---|---|---|
| Mobile (Small) | Layout stacks vertically and remains readable without horizontal scrolling. | Pass |
| Tablet (Medium) | Grid/Flexbox layout adjusts appropriately to screen width. | Pass |
| Desktop (Large) | Full-width layout maintains structural integrity. | Pass |
| W3C Validator | HTML code passes through the official W3C validator with no issues. | Pass |
| Jigsaw Validator | Custom CSS passes through the official Jigsaw validator with no issues. | Pass |
🛠️ Fixed Bugs & Issues
During the development life cycle, the following issues were identified and resolved:
 * Issue: Navigation menu was overlapping on small mobile screens.
   * Fix: Implemented CSS Media Queries to adjust the font size and padding for screens under 480px.
 * Issue: One external link was opening in the same tab.
   * Fix: Added rel="noopener" and target="_blank" attributes to the anchor tag.

## Design and Development Process
### Design Phase 
The design incorporates a main navigation menu, structured layout, and accessibility guidelines (e.g., high contrast, alt text for images). Information is organized by priority with clear headers. Wireframes were sketched in Photoshop to plan user flow, ensuring unambiguous interaction and user control over actions.

### Development Phase
Implemented a multi-page site with custom HTML and CSS, validated via W3C and Jigsaw (no issues). Used semantic markup, media queries for responsiveness, and ensured images are high-resolution without pixelation. Navigation is intuitive, with external links opening in new tabs.

### Maintainability 
Code is structured with comments, external CSS files linked in <head>, and files organized in directories (e.g., assets/css, assets/images). README explains purpose and deployment. External code is attributed via comments and this file.

### Version Control
Used GitHub for version control, with frequent commits for each feature (e.g., "Add responsive navbar", "Fix contact form validation"). Commit messages are descriptive and small.

### Testing and Deployment
Manual tests assessed functionality (e.g., form submission), usability (e.g., navigation on mobile), and responsiveness (e.g., across screen sizes). Bugs like misaligned elements were fixed; no unfixed issues remain. Documented below. Deployed to Neocities; matches local version with no broken links.

#### Testing Documentation
- **Functionality**: Tested links, forms, and navigation – all work as expected.
- **Usability**: User feedback simulation ensured intuitive flow; no confusion in sections.
- **Responsiveness**: Checked on Chrome DevTools for mobile/tablet/desktop – layouts adapt without integrity loss.
- **Accessibility**: Ran WAVE tool; ensured alt text and contrast.
- **Bugs Found/Fixed**: Initial navbar overlap on mobile fixed with media queries. No remaining bugs.
- **Validation**: HTML/CSS passed validators; no errors.

## Live Demo

[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Live_Demo-Visit_Site-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge&logo=google-chrome&logoColor=white)](https://ali-design.neocities.org/)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/Md12Ali/Awesome-Design.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```
   cd Awesome-Design
   ```
3. Open `index.html` in your web browser.

No dependencies required.

## References and Acknowledgments

- Used Gemini AI to research Microsoft Copilot for data collection and inspiration on AI-assisted design workflows.
- Bootstrap documentation: [getbootstrap.com](https://getbootstrap.com/)
- Icons from Font Awesome (attributed in code).
- All external code/libraries attributed in source files.

- ## Data Collection & AI Attribution

Gemini AI and Microsoft Copilot were used for data collection (e.g., researching best practices) and refining technical documentation. All AI-assisted content is attributed here, with custom code distinguished from external sources.

## Code Attribution

- Bootstrap 5: Used for responsive grid and components; attributed in code comments and README (3.3, 3.4).
- Font Awesome: For icons in services section; credited in HTML comments.
- All custom HTML/CSS/JS is original; external tutorials (e.g., for media queries) are commented above relevant code sections.

Code is organized with comments (3.5), CSS in external files linked in <head> (3.6), and files named descriptively without spaces/caps (3.8). Directories: `./assets/` for images/CSS (3.9).

## Testing Procedure

Manual testing procedures were designed and implemented to assess functionality, usability, and responsiveness (5.1, LO5). Testing is documented below .

- **Functionality**: Tested navigation links, form submissions, and external links— all operational; no broken internal links .
- **Usability**: Simulated user journeys on desktop/mobile; intuitive flow confirmed, with clear feedback (e.g., hover states on links).
- **Responsiveness**: Used browser dev tools to check layouts on various screen sizes (mobile, tablet, desktop)— adapts without issues.
- **Accessibility**: WAVE tool confirmed alt text and contrast compliance.
- **Validation**: HTML passed W3C validator (2.3); CSS passed Jigsaw validator (2.2)— no issues.
- **Bugs Found/Fixed**: Initial mobile navbar overlap fixed via media queries; form validation added for empty fields. No unfixed bugs remain.
- **Cross-Browser**: Tested on Chrome, Firefox, Edge— consistent behavior.

The development lifecycle is fully documented , with evaluation of bugs and fixes.


## 📜 Credits & Attribution
* **External Assets:** Icons from Font Awesome, Fonts from Google Fonts.
* **Attribution:** All code from external libraries or tutorials is attributed via comments above the code segments.

## Contact

- **Email**: Md077Ali@gmail.com
- **Phone**: +44 7476 283894
- **GitHub**: [Md12Ali](https://github.com/Md12Ali)
- **Location**: East London, UK

Copyright © 2026 - Mohammed Ali

Commit message:

Add manual testing report to README
Added a manual testing report section to the README, detailing functional, UI/UX, and responsiveness testing results along with fixed bugs and issues.

README.md, after:

# Portfolio
**Live Site:** [Visit My Portfolio](https://ali-design.neocities.org/)

---
## 📖 Project Rationale
This portfolio website is designed as a real-world application to showcase expertise in web design and front-end development. 
* **Purpose:** To provide potential clients and employers an intuitive, accessible interface to explore my professional background and project capabilities.
* **Justification:** A single-page scrolling architecture was chosen to ensure a "Flow of Information" that minimizes user clicks and keeps the experience unambiguous.
* **Target Audience:** Potential clients, tech recruiters, and web development collaborators.

## 👥 User Stories
The application is built to provide a solution to the following user demands:
* **As a new visitor:** I want the site's purpose to be immediately evident so I don't need supporting documentation.
* **As an employer:** I want to see clear examples of past work and services to evaluate technical skills.
* **As a mobile user:** I want a responsive layout that maintains structural integrity across all device sizes.
* **As an accessibility-dependent user:** I want high-contrast text and descriptive alt-tags for all images.

## 🎨 UX & Design Documentation
### Design Principles 
* **Information Hierarchy:** Headers (H1-H6) are used strictly to convey structure, making each section easy to find based on priority.
* **Accessibility:** Meets guidelines for contrast between background and foreground colors to cater to the visually impaired.
* **User Control:** The site avoids aggressive pop-ups and autoplay of media; users initiate all actions.
* **Consistency:** Graphics and interactivity are consistent across all sections to maintain a professional-grade UI.


## 🛠️ Tech Stack & Development
* **Frontend:** HTML5 (Semantic Markup), CSS3 (Custom Styles), Bootstrap 5 (Responsive Grid).
* **Validation:** * HTML passed through the official **W3C Validator**.
    * CSS passed through the official **Jigsaw Validator**.
* **Maintainability:** Code is organized into well-defined, commented sections with external CSS files linked in the HEAD element.

## 🧪 Testing & Bug Evaluation
Manual testing procedures were implemented to assess functionality and responsiveness.

| Feature | Action | Result |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Responsiveness** | Checked on Mobile, Tablet, and Desktop resolutions | **Pass** |
| **Link Integrity** | Verified all internal and external links (open in new tab) | **Pass** |
| **Form Validation** | Ensured contact form handles user inputs correctly | **Pass** |

### Bug Fixes & Evaluation
* **Fixed:** Resolved a navbar overlap issue on small screens using CSS Media Queries.
* **Fixed:** Corrected image pixelation by using higher-resolution assets.
* **Status:** No obvious errors remain; the code is considered robust and publishable.

## 🚀 Deployment 
The project is deployed to a cloud-based hosting platform and tested to ensure it matches the development version.
* **Version Control:** Git & GitHub were used throughout with descriptive commit messages for each feature.

### Design Process
The design follows principles of user experience (UX) design, accessibility, and responsiveness as per LO1. Wireframes were sketched in Photoshop to plan the structure, starting with a main navigation menu and single-scrolling page divided into sections (Intro, About, Services, Portfolio, Contact). Information hierarchy was prioritized: headers convey structure (e.g., H1 for section titles), content is categorized by priority (e.g., intro at top, contact at bottom), and navigation is intuitive via anchor links.

- **Information Hierarchy**: Sections are organized logically—introductory content first, followed by about, services, projects, and contact. Headers use semantic markup to denote importance, ensuring information is easy to find and presented in an organized fashion.
- **Typography**: Primary font is Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif for body text (readable and modern). Headings use bold variations (font-weight: 700) for emphasis and hierarchy.
- **Color Palette**: A simple, high-contrast scheme for accessibility—Background: #FFFFFF (White), Text: #000000 (Black), Accents/Links: #007BFF (Blue), Dividers: #6C757D (Gray), Highlights: #198754 (Green). This ensures no distractions from backgrounds and meets guidelines (e.g., contrast ratios compliant with WCAG).

### Accessibility
The site meets accessibility guidelines (1.2): High contrast between foreground and background colors, alt text for all non-text elements (e.g., images in portfolio), and user control over actions (no auto-popups or autoplay). Graphics are consistent in style and color (1.5), and the design avoids distracting backgrounds (1.4). Flow of information and interaction feedback are clear and unambiguous (M(i)).

## 🖼️ Wireframes & Mockups
The design phase involved creating wireframes to plan the information hierarchy and user flow. These sketches ensured that headers were placed strategically and navigation remained intuitive across all screen sizes.

![Project Wireframe](assets/images/wireframe.png)
*Figure 1: Initial wireframe design for the Awesome-Design portfolio.*



## About the Project

Hey there! Welcome to my online portfolio. My name is Mohammed Ali, a Web Designer based in East London who recently finished a year-long course on Web Standards.

I like to push the boundaries. I love creating unique, clean, usable design for the web and other digital sources. I build clean, appealing, and functional interfaces which comply with the latest web standards.

I design with Photoshop, Illustrator, and Dreamweaver. I use code sites with XHTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, and PHP. Also, I can make dynamic websites with WordPress if required.

This project was developed as part of the "User Centric Front End Development" unit (Level 5, Unit Number: Y/650/3525), aiming to build a responsive front-end web application while adhering to principles of UX design, accessibility, and maintainability.

## Tech Stack

Built using modern web technologies for a responsive and engaging user experience.

| Tool / Tech | 
| --- |
| [![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML) |
| [![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) |
| [![Bootstrap 5](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap_5-7952B3?style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white)](https://getbootstrap.com/) |
| [![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) |
| [![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/PHP-777BB4?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)](https://www.php.net/) |

**Design Tools:**
[![Photoshop](https://img.shields.io/badge/Adobe%20Photoshop-31A8FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobephotoshop&logoColor=white)](https://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop.html)
[![Illustrator](https://img.shields.io/badge/Adobe%20Illustrator-FF9A00?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobeillustrator&logoColor=white)](https://www.adobe.com/products/illustrator.html)
[![Dreamweaver](https://img.shields.io/badge/Adobe%20Dreamweaver-FF00FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobedreamweaver&logoColor=white)](https://www.adobe.com/products/dreamweaver.html)

## Features

- **Responsive Design**: Utilizes Bootstrap and media queries to adapt seamlessly to desktops, tablets, and mobile devices.
- **Portfolio Gallery**: Displays recent projects with images and descriptions, using semantic HTML for structure.
- **Contact Form**: Allows visitors to submit inquiries, with validation for user input.
- **Anchor Navigation**: Smooth scrolling to sections like About, Services, and Portfolio for intuitive user flow.
- **Clean Interfaces**: Emphasizes usability with consistent styles, accessibility features (e.g., alt text, contrast ratios), and no distracting elements.

## Design System

### Typography

- Primary Font: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif (body text for readability).
- Headings: Bold variations (e.g., font-weight: 700) for emphasis and hierarchy.

### Colors

A simple palette for contrast and accessibility:
- Background: #FFFFFF (White)
- Text: #000000 (Black)
- Accents/Links: #007BFF (Blue)
- Dividers: #6C757D (Gray)
- Highlights: #198754 (Green)

This ensures WCAG compliance, with no distractions from backgrounds and consistent graphics.
## 🧪 Manual Testing Report
The following testing procedures were designed and implemented.

### 1. Functional Testing
| Feature | Expected Outcome | Result |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Navigation Links** | All menu items lead to the correct section or page. | **Pass** |
| **External Links** | All external links open in a new browser tab (`target="_blank"`). | **Pass** |
| **User Control** | Audio/Video or pop-ups are user-initiated and not automatic. | **Pass** |
| **Broken Links** | No internal links are broken within the application. | **Pass** |

### 2. UI/UX & Accessibility Testing
| Test Case | Description | Result |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Information Hierarchy** | Headers (h1-h6) are used correctly to convey content structure. | **Pass** |
| **Color Contrast** | Background and foreground colors have sufficient contrast for readability. | **Pass** |
| **Image Resolution** | Images are high quality and do not appear pixelated or stretched. | **Pass** |
| **Non-text Elements** | All images have descriptive alt text for screen readers. | **Pass** |

### 3. Responsiveness & Compatibility
| Device/Browser | Testing Action | Result |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Mobile (Small)** | Layout stacks vertically and remains readable (320px). | **Pass** |
| **Tablet (Medium)** | Grid/Flexbox layout adjusts appropriately (768px). | **Pass** |
| **W3C Validator** | HTML code passes through the official W3C validator. | **Pass** |
| **Jigsaw Validator** | Custom CSS passes through the official Jigsaw validator. | **Pass** |


During the development life cycle, the following issues were identified and resolved:
 * Issue: Navigation menu was overlapping on small mobile screens.
   * Fix: Implemented CSS Media Queries to adjust the font size and padding for screens under 480px.
 * Issue: One external link was opening in the same tab.
   * Fix: Added rel="noopener" and target="_blank" attributes to the anchor tag.

## Design and Development Process
### Design Phase 
The design incorporates a main navigation menu, structured layout, and accessibility guidelines (e.g., high contrast, alt text for images). Information is organized by priority with clear headers. Wireframes were sketched in Photoshop to plan user flow, ensuring unambiguous interaction and user control over actions.

### Development Phase
Implemented a multi-page site with custom HTML and CSS, validated via W3C and Jigsaw (no issues). Used semantic markup, media queries for responsiveness, and ensured images are high-resolution without pixelation. Navigation is intuitive, with external links opening in new tabs.

### Maintainability 
Code is structured with comments, external CSS files linked in <head>, and files organized in directories (e.g., assets/css, assets/images). README explains purpose and deployment. External code is attributed via comments and this file.

### Version Control
Used GitHub for version control, with frequent commits for each feature (e.g., "Add responsive navbar", "Fix contact form validation"). Commit messages are descriptive and small.

### Testing and Deployment
Manual tests assessed functionality (e.g., form submission), usability (e.g., navigation on mobile), and responsiveness (e.g., across screen sizes). Bugs like misaligned elements were fixed; no unfixed issues remain. Documented below. Deployed to Neocities; matches local version with no broken links.

#### Testing Documentation
- **Functionality**: Tested links, forms, and navigation – all work as expected.
- **Usability**: User feedback simulation ensured intuitive flow; no confusion in sections.
- **Responsiveness**: Checked on Chrome DevTools for mobile/tablet/desktop – layouts adapt without integrity loss.
- **Accessibility**: Ran WAVE tool; ensured alt text and contrast.
- **Bugs Found/Fixed**: Initial navbar overlap on mobile fixed with media queries. No remaining bugs.
- **Validation**: HTML/CSS passed validators; no errors.

## Live Demo

[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Live_Demo-Visit_Site-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge&logo=google-chrome&logoColor=white)](https://ali-design.neocities.org/)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/Md12Ali/Awesome-Design.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```
   cd Awesome-Design
   ```
3. Open `index.html` in your web browser.

No dependencies required.

## References and Acknowledgments

- Used Gemini AI to research Microsoft Copilot for data collection and inspiration on AI-assisted design workflows.
- Bootstrap documentation: [getbootstrap.com](https://getbootstrap.com/)
- Icons from Font Awesome (attributed in code).
- All external code/libraries attributed in source files.

- ## Data Collection & AI Attribution

Gemini AI and Microsoft Copilot were used for data collection (e.g., researching best practices) and refining technical documentation. All AI-assisted content is attributed here, with custom code distinguished from external sources.

## Code Attribution

- Bootstrap 5: Used for responsive grid and components; attributed in code comments and README (3.3, 3.4).
- Font Awesome: For icons in services section; credited in HTML comments.
- All custom HTML/CSS/JS is original; external tutorials (e.g., for media queries) are commented above relevant code sections.

Code is organized with comments (3.5), CSS in external files linked in <head> (3.6), and files named descriptively without spaces/caps (3.8). Directories: `./assets/` for images/CSS (3.9).

## Testing Procedure

Manual testing procedures were designed and implemented to assess functionality, usability, and responsiveness (5.1, LO5). Testing is documented below .

- **Functionality**: Tested navigation links, form submissions, and external links— all operational; no broken internal links .
- **Usability**: Simulated user journeys on desktop/mobile; intuitive flow confirmed, with clear feedback (e.g., hover states on links).
- **Responsiveness**: Used browser dev tools to check layouts on various screen sizes (mobile, tablet, desktop)— adapts without issues.
- **Accessibility**: WAVE tool confirmed alt text and contrast compliance.
- **Validation**: HTML passed W3C validator (2.3); CSS passed Jigsaw validator (2.2)— no issues.
- **Bugs Found/Fixed**: Initial mobile navbar overlap fixed via media queries; form validation added for empty fields. No unfixed bugs remain.
- **Cross-Browser**: Tested on Chrome, Firefox, Edge— consistent behavior.

The development lifecycle is fully documented , with evaluation of bugs and fixes.


## 📜 Credits & Attribution
* **External Assets:** Icons from Font Awesome, Fonts from Google Fonts.
* **Attribution:** All code from external libraries or tutorials is attributed via comments above the code segments.

## Contact

- **Email**: Md077Ali@gmail.com
- **Phone**: +44 7476 283894
- **GitHub**: [Md12Ali](https://github.com/Md12Ali)
- **Location**: East London, UK

Copyright © 2026 - Mohammed Ali
